hey what's up MKBHD here and I've got
the latest beta of Android 15 on my
pixel 8 Pro right here so a lot of you
know I've done these videos for a long
time like I've made a video on the best
features of the latest version of
Android for I don't know how many years
in a row now since they were naming them
after desserts and if you've been
watching all of these then you've
noticed a trend which is there used to
be huge new features and massive like
visual overhauls and all sorts crazy
gigantic things changing with Android
but now things have stabilized I would
say it's it's a lot more small changes
and more nuanced things here and there
so it's gotten to the point where these
top five features of Android 15 back in
the day this would have been like a o.2
update like this these are smaller and
smaller new features with each new
version but on the other hand that
actually feels like it is uh they're
they're they're a little more
well-considered they're more about
usefulness they're more about little
tweaks here and there to make actually
using and owning your phone a little bit
better so I can appreciate that and I
will also say it's felt like in videos
in the past I've said that you know this
is a version that's only going to show
up on the pixel for at least a year and
you may never get to see the newest
version of Android but I feel like with
a lot of the newest companies actually
promising a good amount of software
updates into the future hopefully more
people will actually see these couple of
things so I'm just going to Jump Right
In These are the top five best features
I found in Android 15 so number five is
called private space and it's it's
exactly what it sounds like it's a
private space on your Android phone for
your top secret files photos and
whatever else you got in there so to
turn it on you go to settings and then
security and privacy and then private
space is near the bottom so you confirm
it's you and you pick a Google account
and a new lock if you want then this
private space is set up and basically
you can always find find it all the way
at the bottom of your app drawer like
that's where it lives so obviously if
you were to like give someone your phone
to borrow for a while you could put it
in guest mode and it would just
basically be a brand new phone for them
set up but yeah private space is
different it's more of just a separate
section under a separate lock underneath
the phone that you're already logged
into and signed up for so it's basically
a whole new little section of your phone
hidden away behind a second lock for
your top secret activities apps files
photos whatever you want want and when
you want to hide it away again you just
hit lock you can put whatever you want
in there totally up to you uh then
number four so I'm kind of combining a
lot of these things I've done this in
videos in the past it's just a whole
bunch of the little things that sort of
Stack up to feel like a more refined
experience so number four is the little
things like one of them is Rich widget
previews which obviously is not a huge
thing cuz how often are you actually
adding new widgets to your home screen
not very much but when you do now the
widgets that support this will actually
show you content that will actually be
on them before they get added and
they're in live in real time and
represent real things on your phone this
could have maybe been higher on my list
but at this point it's so new that it's
basically only like two of Google's apps
like it's just the clocks and widgets
around that but it would be nice to see
more Google Apps and even more
thirdparty apps adopt this like I want
to see in the example widget before I
add it like my act one of my actual
notion boards instead of a madeup one or
one of my actual contact instead of a
random person another one is this new
back animation when you move backwards
through like settings or anything with
multiple layers that you can back out of
I think it's a little bit smoother a
little nicer another one is Bluetooth
audio sharing you can have multiple
headphones paired to the same Bluetooth
audio source as long as they support
Bluetooth LE which most new headphones
do another one is high quality mode when
you use your Android phone as your
webcam another one is Bluetooth Auto on
so if you turn Bluetooth off on your
phone then the next day it automatically
gets turned back on again so you don't
have to remember to and there's just a
whole bunch more little things like that
it feels like every year Google pays
attention to little things about the way
we use our phones and then can add stuff
to help us there but speaking of little
things I'm making number three by itself
one of those little things which is the
new volume sliders so right now when I
hit volume it looks the way it normally
does the auto live caption button is
still there on the pixel totally
underrated feature and then your mode
switcher at the top but then when you
hit the three dots to expand and you get
this whole almost full screen overlay
showing where you're playing audio to
and then all the sliders for volume of
everything happening on your phone and
this is something you know that's been
smaller and in various other forms in
previous versions of Android but I like
this big one just makes it super clear
what's going on and how loud each
individual thing is going to be so then
now we're getting to the top number two
is partial screen recordings so I think
normally when you do a screen recording
on your phone you just expect to see
everything right you just start it it's
your home screen it's every single app
you switch between everything happening
on your phone that's that's a normal
screen recording but I've been playing
with screen recordings here on the pixel
with this Dev preview and it's a lot
smarter about only showing if you want
individual single things happening on
your phone so when you go to initiate a
screen recording you can either do the
entire screen which is normal or a
single app so check this out if I do
single app and then start recording it
gives me a picker to choose which app I
want to record I'll pick one of the ones
I already have open relay Reddit just
for this example the countdown starts at
the top and then it's recording this
Reddit app so I can scroll around just
use it as usual but now watch if I go
home and then open another app like
photos and then scroll around in here
and then go back home go back to the
relay app then scroll some more that's
the screen recording now check this out
when you go to watch the screen
recording it looks normal but then the
moment I go home and then go to photos
see that doesn't show up in the screen
recording it's still just recording the
Reddit app even though it's in the
background now and then you can see when
I get back to it and start scrolling
some more it picks up where it left off
so it's only specifically showing what I
want you to see and this is super useful
I think this is my new default for
screen recordings you don't have to see
you know a random text message I have
coming in or me copying and pasting a
security code from another app right
like that it's just me giving you a
tutorial on like one exact thing that I
want to show you that's pretty cool but
then number one this is one of those
things that Android has been really good
at and had the edge at for years which
is just better notifications a
notification management and so far with
these two previews it's even better in
specifically a couple of ways there's
adaptive vibrations there is
notification cool down there is custom
vibrations there's a whole bunch of
stuff so I'll walk through each so
adaptive vibration is fascinating it
kind of just seems like another one of
those magic feeling Google things but
you go into vibration settings and just
turn it on there's no further settings
but it basically says it's using your
phone's mic and other sensors to
determine the sound levels around it and
potentially even what type of surface
it's on to set the strength of vibration
so you can always feel or hear it so the
idea is if your phone is on like a desk
somewhere or a hard surface it doesn't
have to Rattle the thing at maximum
strength to be heard it can turn it down
but then if it's on a couch or something
softer it will pick that up and it will
vibrate more loudly or more firmly so
you can actually still hear it clever
and then there's another thing in Dev
preview one at least that was called
notification cool down which is
literally just a setting to be able to
help you manage when you get a ton of
notifications from the same app over and
over in a row because we've all been in
that group chat that's going nuts or the
slack channel that won't shut up or a
SAA or whatever something that's just
constantly pinging you over and over
with the same app and so notification
cool down when you enable that will just
sort of taper that off and keep you
updated on when a bunch of new stuff
comes in but not just buzz you over and
over now that was in Dev preview one and
then this is Dev Preview 2 and it's not
in this one it's gone I'm not sure why
but I hope they bring that back I hope
they keep it cuz that's pretty sick and
then there's an even more subtle one
that's because it's basically hidden to
users this is something developers have
which is individual vibration patterns
per app cuz see some of you aren't old
enough to remember when smartphones had
led notification lights on them
multicolor lights that would actually
have a different color light up based on
what app you were getting a notification
from so I could know without waking up
my phone if I had a blinking blue light
happening oh that's a Twitter
notification I can ignore it or if it
was a blinking green light then it's a
new Gmail notification and I can ignore
it it but if it's a new blinking red
light then it's a new missed call and I
can ignore it but then phones all got
rid of these lights so now we wake up
our phones every time we want to check
on something and if you have an always
on display that can be useful but in a
surface shown to developers they have
the ability now to customize their own
vibration pattern specific to their app
so I think that's pretty sick I'm kind
of hoping and this is totally just
hoping but I hope that they surface that
to you users as well I hope just like
I've been able to pick between a bunch
of different weather icon apps for my
one app that does weather I hope they
let me choose between a couple custom
vibration sounds or vibration patterns
for apps because I would love to
customize and feel that I've gotten a
Twitter notification and that I can
still ignore it now for those wondering
since we check every year when you go
into settings it doesn't actually say
Android 15 it says vanilla ice cream for
this Dev preview too and when you click
into it this is the animated Easter egg
which looks nothing like vanilla ice
cream but for what it's worth it's a
little more space likee but now here's
the thing if you hold it down long
enough it speeds up all the way and then
snaps and turns into this this sort of
random spacecraft in the middle of what
seems like a nearly Infinite Canvas kind
of reminds me of that Asteroids game
from back in the day but you don't shoot
anything you just kind of fly around
using this thrust vector and explore
this gigantic
space the only thing that worries me is
that in the corner it says bodies 0 out
of 10 so I think if people explore this
thing long enough they're going to find
bodies whatever that means but yeah like
I said a bunch of subtle things some new
notification stuff here and there some
new management usage of your phone type
stuff it's it's nuanced it's subtle I'm
still excited for some of the bigger AI
based features to drop because that's
the stuff that we're expecting to make a
big difference the way we use our phones
it's just not built into Android anymore
it's the AI stuff that your phone is
capable of that's not in the OS but it's
still good to see good OS features too
let me know what your favorite one is or
if you agree with my order of the top
five in the comment section below thanks
for watching catch you in the next one
peace
[Music]